{"name": "Chapters 20\u201323", "summary": "Chapter 20  Candide still has a little money and a few jewels, and hopes to use what he has to recover Cun\u00e9gonde. His love and remaining fortune momentarily renew his faith in Pangloss\u2019s philosophy. Martin the scholar, on the other hand, maintains that God has abandoned the world because men kill and maim one another everywhere. En route to Bordeaux, Martin and Candide watch a battle between two ships. One ship sinks and its crew perishes. Candide finds his sheep in the water and realizes that the defeated ship belonged to Vanderdendur. Candide claims that there is some good in the world because Vanderdendur has met with just punishment, but Martin asks why Vanderdendur\u2019s crew had to die with him.  Chapter 21  When the coast of France is in sight, Candide asks Martin if he has ever been to Paris. Martin says he has, and describes his previous encounters with the French and his disgust at what he calls their lack of manners. Candide asks Martin why the world was made, and Martin replies, \u201cTo make us mad.\u201d Candide then asks Martin if he believes that men have always done evil things to one another. Martin replies with a question, asking Candide if hawks have always eaten pigeons. When Candide answers yes, Martin counters that if the rest of nature\u2019s beasts do not change, then men do not either. Candide disagrees, claiming that men have free will.  Chapter 22  The ship arrives in France, and Candide buys a carriage so that he and Martin can continue to travel together. They decide to visit Paris, but Candide becomes ill upon arriving at their hotel. Candide wears a large diamond on his hand that attracts a great number of new friends, including two physicians, who force their services on him. The physicians only succeed in making Candide sicker. Candide and Martin meet an abb\u00e9 of Perigord and play cards with him and his friends. The other players cheat, and Candide loses a great deal of money. The abb\u00e9 takes Candide and Martin to visit the Marquise of Parolignac. While there, Candide argues with a philosopher about whether everything is for the best in this world. The philosopher states that the world is in a state of \u201cunending warfare.\u201d The Marquise seduces Candide and steals his jeweled rings. \tBy manipulating Candide, the abb\u00e9 learns that Candide has not received a letter from Cun\u00e9gonde. The next morning, Candide receives a letter signed \u201cCun\u00e9gonde\u201d with the news that she is ill in Paris and wishes him to visit her. Candide and Martin are conducted into a dark room. The maidservant explains that Candide may not view Cun\u00e9gonde because light would be harmful to her. Candide gives diamonds and gold to the woman he believes to be Cun\u00e9gonde. The abb\u00e9 arrives with a squad of officers and orders Martin and Candide arrested as \u201csuspicious strangers.\u201d Candide bribes an officer with diamonds, and the officer lets them go. The officer\u2019s brother, after being given more diamonds, puts Candide and Martin on a ship bound for England.  Chapter 23  When the ship is near shore, Martin and Candide witness the execution of an admiral. They learn that England executes admirals periodically to encourage the rest of the fleet to fight harder, and that this particular admiral was sentenced to death for failing to incite his men to get closer to the enemy during a battle with the French in Canada. Candide refuses to set foot in England and arranges for the captain of the ship to take him to Venice, where he is certain he will be reunited with Cun\u00e9gonde.  \u2014You see, said Candide to Martin, crime is punished sometimes; this scoundrel of a Dutch merchant has met the fate he deserved. \u2014Yes, said Martin; but did the passengers aboard his ship have to perish too? See Important Quotations Explained", "analysis": "Chapters 20\u201323 Martin is a foil to Pangloss. He does not believe that everything is for the best in this world, nor does he believe in some natural \u201cgood.\u201d He acknowledges the evil side of human nature. For Martin, the presence of evil in the world does not inspire convoluted logical justification. Candide tries to counter Martin\u2019s arguments by citing the idea of free will. However, free will does not solve the dilemma of the presence of evil in a world created by a perfectly good, omniscient, omnipotent Christian God.<PARAGRAPH>In telling the story of his life, Martin refers to two religious ideologies. He claims that the Surinamese clergy persecuted him because they thought he was a Socinian. The Socinians were a Christian sect formed during the Reformation. They rejected the divinity of Christ, the trinity, and original sin. They greatly influenced Enlightenment thought and aided in the formation of the ideology of the Unitarian Universalist church. The Surinamese clergy were, however, mistaken in their understanding of Martin\u2019s \u201cheresy.\u201d Martin claims that he is not a Socinian, but a \u201cManichee.\u201d Manichaeism is an ancient religion founded by the sage Mani. The Manichaeans see the universe in terms of the dual forces of good and evil. They believe that these two forces are equally powerful in the world and are continually in conflict. Manichaeans believe that through spiritual knowledge, human beings can conquer the evil side of their natures. Christians, whose doctrines hinge on a belief in a good and all-powerful god who is more powerful than the evil represented by Satan, fiercely reject Manichaeism. The precepts of Manichaeism also directly conflict with Pangloss\u2019s optimism, since a world dominated in part by evil cannot be perfect or perfectible. For the remainder of the novel, Martin\u2019s ideas provide an enlightening counterexample to the beliefs espoused by Pangloss and Candide. In general, Martin\u2019s arguments seem more reasonable and compelling than Candide\u2019s renditions of Pangloss\u2019s ideas. But, like Pangloss, Martin believes so firmly in his own view of the\u00a0world that he occasionally dismisses real evidence that contradicts his philosophy, thereby discrediting it. For example, in Chapter\u00a024, Martin asserts that Cacambo has certainly run off with Candide\u2019s money, and according to Martin\u2019s cynical opinion of human nature, there is no way Cacambo could do otherwise. In reality, however, Cacambo remains loyal to Candide, even though he does not stand to gain anything. Like Pangloss\u2019s optimism, Martin\u2019s pessimism is based too heavily on abstract speculation and dogmatic belief, and not enough on empirical evidence. Voltaire personally may have found ideas like Martin\u2019s philosophy more credible, but he does not endorse them entirely in his writing. Absolute pessimism, Voltaire seems to say, is as short-sighted and self-defeating as absolute optimism. \tIn Chapter 22, Voltaire indulges in some relatively good-natured satire of his native country. Voltaire wrote Candide after he had been in exile for several years, and his portrait of the Parisian character, while quite condemnatory, has a ring of intimacy to it. He describes the gambling, sexual license, theater, and debauchery of the city in colorful detail. The xenophobia that the abb\u00e9 exploits to rob Candide and that forces Candide to leave the country is perhaps meant to represent the intellectual intolerance that also forced Voltaire out of his homeland. \tVoltaire\u2019s portrayal of the English demonstrates the range of his critical eye. He was generally very admiring of English government and culture and considered England the most progressive nation in Europe. However, Voltaire does not attempt to portray England as a perfect, or even a good, place. With his depiction of the admiral\u2019s execution, Voltaire acknowledges that even the country he most admires subscribes to the same ridiculous, irrational logic and the same barbaric practices that are found in every other place on earth.", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000603/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/candide/section6/"}