{"name": "Chapters 5\u201310", "summary": "Chapter 5  A furious storm overtakes Candide\u2019s ship on its way to Lisbon. Jacques tries to save a sailor who has almost fallen overboard. He saves the sailor but falls overboard himself, and the sailor does nothing to help him. The ship sinks, and Pangloss, Candide, and the sailor are the only survivors. They reach shore and walk toward Lisbon. \tLisbon has just experienced a terrible earthquake and is in ruins. The sailor finds some money in the ruins and promptly gets drunk and pays a woman for sex. Meanwhile the groans of dying and buried victims rise from the ruins. Pangloss and Candide help the wounded, and Pangloss comforts the victims by telling them the earthquake is for the best. One of the officers of the Inquisition accuses Pangloss of heresy because an optimist cannot possibly believe in original sin. The fall and punishment of man, the Catholic Inquisitor claims, prove that everything is not for the best. Through some rather twisted logic, Pangloss attempts to defend his theory.  Chapter 6  The Portuguese authorities decide to burn a few people alive to prevent future earthquakes. They choose one man because he has married his godmother, and two others because they have refused to eat bacon (thus presumably revealing themselves to be Jewish). The authorities hang Pangloss for his opinions and publicly flog Candide for \u201clistening with an air of approval.\u201d When another earthquake occurs later the same day, Candide finds himself doubting that this is the best of all possible worlds.  Chapter 7  Just then an old woman approaches Candide, treats his wounds, gives him new clothes, and feeds him. After two days, she leads him to a house in the country to meet his real benefactor, Cun\u00e9gonde.  Chapter 8  Cun\u00e9gonde explains to Candide that the Bulgars have killed her family. After executing a soldier whom he found raping Cun\u00e9gonde, a Bulgar captain took Cun\u00e9gonde as his mistress and later sold her to a Jew, Don Issachar. After seeing her at Mass, the Grand Inquisitor wanted to buy her from Don Issachar; when Don Issachar refused, the Grand Inquisitor threatened him with auto-da-f\u00e9 (burning alive). The two agreed to share Cun\u00e9gonde; the Grand Inquisitor would have her four days a week, Don Issachar the other three. Cun\u00e9gonde was present to see Pangloss hanged and Candide whipped, the horror of which made her doubt Pangloss\u2019s teachings. Cun\u00e9gonde told the old woman, her servant, to care for Candide and bring him to her.  Chapter 9  Don Issachar arrives to find Cun\u00e9gonde and Candide alone together, and attacks Candide in a jealous rage. Candide kills Don Issachar with a sword given to him by the old woman. The Grand Inquisitor arrives to enjoy his allotted time with Cun\u00e9gonde and is surprised to find Candide. Candide kills him. Cun\u00e9gonde gathers her jewels and three horses from the stable and flees with Candide and the old woman. The Holy Brotherhood gives the Grand Inquisitor a grand burial, but throws Don Issachar\u2019s body on a dunghill.<PARAGRAPH> Chapter 10  A Franciscan friar steals Cun\u00e9gonde\u2019s jewels. Despite his agreement with Pangloss\u2019s philosophy that \u201cthe fruits of the earth are a common heritage of all,\u201d Candide nonetheless laments the loss. Candide and Cun\u00e9gonde sell one horse and travel to Cadiz, where they find troops preparing to sail to the New World. Paraguayan Jesuit priests have incited an Indian tribe to rebel against the kings of Spain and Portugal. Candide demonstrates his military experience to the general, who promptly makes him a captain. Candide takes Cun\u00e9gonde, the old woman, and the horses with him, and predicts that it is the New World that will prove to be the best of all possible worlds. But Cun\u00e9gonde claims to have suffered so much that she has almost lost all hope. The old woman admonishes Cun\u00e9gonde for complaining because Cun\u00e9gonde has not suffered as much as she has.", "analysis": "Chapters 5\u201310 Readers have proposed various interpretations of Jacques\u2019s death. His death could represent Voltaire\u2019s criticism of the optimistic belief that evil is always balanced by good. Jacques, who is good, perishes while saving the sailor, who is selfish and evil; the result is not a balance but a case of evil surviving good. Jacques\u2019s death could also represent the uselessness of Christian values. Continually referred to as \u201cthe Anabaptist,\u201d Jacques is an altruist who does not change society for the better; he ends up a victim of his own altruism. \tPangloss responds to Jacques\u2019s death by asserting that the bay outside Lisbon had been formed \u201cexpressly for this Anabaptist to drown in.\u201d This argument is a parody of the complacent reasoning of optimistic philosophers. Convinced that the world God created must necessarily be perfectly planned and executed, optimists end up drawing far-fetched and unlikely connections between apparently unrelated events, such as the formation of a bay and the drowning of Jacques. \tVoltaire bases the earthquake in Candide on an actual historical event that affected him deeply. A devastating earthquake on November 1, 1755\u2014All Saints\u2019 Day\u2014leveled Lisbon and killed over 30,000 people, many of whom died while praying in church. The earthquake challenged a number of Enlightenment thinkers\u2019 optimistic views of the world. \tThe sailor\u2019s debauchery amid the groans of the wounded represents indifference in the face of evil. Voltaire strongly condemned indifference, and his belief that human inaction allows suffering to continue is evident in his depictions of the sailor and Pangloss. At one point, when Candide is knocked down by rubble and begs Pangloss to bring him wine and oil, Pangloss ignores Candide\u2019s request and rambles on about the causes and ultimate purpose of the earthquake. Voltaire proposes a fundamental similarity between Pangloss\u2019s behavior and the sailor\u2019s actions. The sailor\u2019s sensual indulgence in the face of death is grotesque and inhumane. While less grotesque, Pangloss\u2019s philosophizing is no better, because it too gets in the way of any meaningful, useful response to the disaster. \tThe auto-da-f\u00e9, or act of faith, was the Inquisition\u2019s practice of burning heretics alive. Beginning in the Middle Ages, the officials of the Inquisition systematically tortured and murdered tens of thousands of people on the slightest suspicion of heresy against orthodox Christian doctrine. Jews, Protestants, Muslims, and accused witches were victims of this organized campaign of violence. Like many Enlightenment intellectuals, Voltaire was appalled by the barbarism and superstition of the Inquisition, and by the religious fervor that inspired it.<PARAGRAPH>Voltaire makes his ideological priorities clear in Candide. Pangloss\u2019s philosophy lacks use and purpose, and often leads to misguided suffering, but the Inquisition\u2019s determination to suppress dissenting opinion at any cost represents tyranny and unjust persecution. The Inquisition authorities twist Pangloss\u2019s words to make them appear to be a direct attack on Christian orthodoxy, and flog Candide for merely seeming to approve of what Pangloss says. This flogging of Candide represents exaggeration on Voltaire\u2019s part, an amplification of the Inquisition\u2019s repressive tactics that serves a satirical purpose. Along with outrage at the cruelty of the Inquisition, we are encouraged to laugh at its irrationality, as well as at the exaggerated nature of Candide\u2019s experience. \tCun\u00e9gonde\u2019s situation inspires a similarly subversive combination of horror and absurdity. Her story demonstrates the vulnerability of women to male exploitation and their status as objects of possession and barter. Cun\u00e9gonde is bought and sold like a painting or piece of livestock, yet the deadpan calm with which she relates her experiences to Candide creates an element of the absurd. Candide takes this absurdity further; as Cun\u00e9gonde describes how her Bulgar rapist left a wound on her thigh, Candide interrupts to say, \u201cWhat a pity! I should very much like to see it.\u201d In the middle of this litany of dreadful events, Candide\u2019s suggestive comments seem ridiculous, but the absurdity provides comic relief from the despicably violent crimes that Cun\u00e9gonde describes. \tThe stereotyped representation of the Jew Don Issachar may offend the contemporary reader, but it demonstrates the hypocrisy that afflicted even such a progressive thinker as Voltaire. Voltaire attacked religious persecution throughout his life, but he suffered from his own collection of prejudices. In theory, he opposed the persecution of Jews, but in practice, he expressed anti-Semitic views of his own. In his Dictionary of Philosophy, Voltaire describes the Jews as \u201cthe most abominable people in the world.\u201d Don Issachar\u2019s character is a narrow, mean-spirited stereotype\u2014a rich, conniving merchant who deals in the market of human flesh. \tVoltaire makes another attack on religious hypocrisy through the character of the Franciscan who steals Cun\u00e9gonde\u2019s jewels. The Franciscan order required a vow of poverty from its members, making Voltaire\u2019s choice of that order for his thief especially ironic.", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210225000603/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/candide/section2/"}