{"name": "Book II, Chapters VIII\u2013XV", "summary": "[The plow] stood out against the sun . . . the handles, the tongue, the share\u2014black against the molten red. There it was, heroic in size, a picture writing on the\u00a0sun.\t See Important Quotations Explained   Chapter VIII Finally, the long winter gives way to spring, and \u00c1ntonia, Jim, and the Harling children spend their days in the garden and at play among the trees. In June, the Vannis, an Italian family, arrive with a dancing pavilion and begin giving lessons. The pavilion quickly becomes a center of town life, especially on Saturday nights, when the dancing carries on until midnight.  Chapter IX Jim claims that all the socially respectable boys are secretly attracted to the country girls who came to Black Hawk as hired girls. But because of the town\u2019s extremely rigid social hierarchy, none of the town boys feels comfortable dating a hired girl. For his part, Jim finds the hired girls more interesting and worthwhile than the townsfolk, and he begins to spend time with them, to the general disapproval of the community.  Chapter X Over time, \u00c1ntonia begins to draw notice at the pavilion, and thoughts of dancing soon preoccupy her waking hours. Trouble arises when an engaged boy attempts to kiss \u00c1ntonia on the Harlings\u2019 back porch. Although \u00c1ntonia manages to fight him off, Mr. Harling presents her with an ultimatum: she must quit dancing or look for work elsewhere. Indignant, \u00c1ntonia decides to take her chances on her own and announces her plan to find work with Wick Cutter, the local moneylender. Distraught, Mrs. Harling tells \u00c1ntonia that she cannot speak to her if she works for the Cutters. \u00c1ntonia insists on keeping her independence and leaving the Harlings.  Chapter XI Jim describes the Cutters as a detestable Black Hawk couple, generally loathed by the populace: Wick Cutter is a devious moneylender who makes his money by manipulating farmers into accepting unwise loans, and Mrs. Cutter is a hideous shrew. The Cutters do not even get along with each other, and their epic arguments are legendary throughout the town.  Chapter XII Once set up at the Cutters, \u00c1ntonia spends even more time and energy on her new social life. She sews her own outfits and parades around town with Lena and a number of the other hired girls. Now a senior in high school, Jim sometimes travels about with them. After the Vannis leave town, a group called the Owl Club begins to stage dances in the Masonic Hall each Tuesday, but Jim refuses to join. Envious of the older girls, Jim begins to grow restless at the thought of being cooped up in school, and so he visits a local saloon. When Jim\u2019s reputation is brought into question, he is forced to look elsewhere for diversion, but he quickly finds that very few diversions are to be found in Black Hawk. Eager to find an alternative, Jim resolves to attend the Saturday night dances at the Firemen\u2019s Hall, sneaking out of the house after his grandparents have fallen asleep. One evening, after a night of dancing, Jim walks \u00c1ntonia back to the Cutters. When he asks for a kiss and goes a little farther than \u00c1ntonia expects, she scolds him for his brazenness. Jim, pleased at her show of virtue, walks home with his heart full of her.<PARAGRAPH> Chapter XIII A short time later, Jim notices that his grandmother has been crying. She has learned of his secret journeys to the Firemen\u2019s Hall dances, and she is ashamed of his deceitfulness. In an attempt to atone for his actions, Jim swears off the dances, but he finds himself lonely again as a result. At his high school commencement, Jim gives an oration that the crowd receives wonderfully. Afterward, \u00c1ntonia breathlessly congratulates him and is moved to tears when he declares that he dedicated the oration to her father. Jim is thrilled with his success.  Chapter XIV During the summer, Jim commits himself to a rigorous study schedule in preparation for his upcoming university studies. His one -holiday comes in July, when he arranges to meet a party of girls, including \u00c1ntonia and Lena, at the river. As he approaches, he spots \u00c1ntonia sitting alone by a stream and notices she has been crying. When Jim asks her why she is sad, she confesses to him her pangs of homesickness for the old country and for her father. Later in the day, \u00c1ntonia and Jim rejoin the rest of the girls, and they spend the afternoon playing games and talking together until sunset.  Chapter XV Left alone to housesit for the Cutters in late August, \u00c1ntonia has an uneasy feeling about spending the night by herself. Jim agrees to sleep there in her stead and comes back to the Burdens each morning for breakfast. On his third night in the house, he is roused by a noise, but quickly falls back asleep. A short while later, he wakes to the noise of someone in the same room and comes face to face with Cutter, who was expecting to find \u00c1ntonia in the room. Cutter has used the trip as an elaborate scheme to abandon his wife and either seduce or rape \u00c1ntonia. He had told \u00c1ntonia that he left his valuables under her bed and that she must not leave them unattended at night. A scuffle ensues, and Jim manages to escape Cutter by leaping out of the window and running through the dark town in his nightshirt. He eventually makes his way home, only to find that he has suffered several severe bruises and cuts. Jim holes up in his room to recover, and Mrs. Burden accompanies \u00c1ntonia to the Cutters to pack her trunk. They find the house in utter disarray, and, as they are gathering up the torn garments, Mrs. Cutter arrives at the front door. After doing her best to calm Mrs. Cutter down, Mrs. Burden listens in amazement as Mrs. Cutter relates the elaborate ruse that her husband concocted: he put her on the wrong train while he slipped back to Black Hawk in his failed scheme to have his way with \u00c1ntonia.", "analysis": "Book II, Chapters VIII\u2013XV Frances Harling, the no-nonsense businesswoman of the novel, perfectly describes the core of Jim\u2019s affliction. Criticizing Jim over his affections for the hired girls, Frances says, \u201cThe problem with you, Jim, is that you\u2019re romantic.\u201d Frances\u2019s objection to Jim\u2019s social persona lies both in his withdrawal from society and in the glorified sense of glamour that he bestows upon \u00c1ntonia, Lena, and the rest of their kind. Frances, who speaks for the more respectable realms of Black Hawk society, represents a class of people whom Jim despises. Jim contrasts the staid propriety of a house full of \u201chand-painted china that must not be used\u201d with the carefree charms of the free spirits he deems \u201cmy country girls.\u201d<PARAGRAPH>The dancing pavilion brings the difference between the sheltered American daughters and the immigrant working girls into relief. As Jim observes, the presence of the dance hall upsets the established social order. With little to lose, the displaced immigrant girls from Bohemia, Denmark, and Norway take advantage of their working-class freedom to gain a foothold among the young men of Black Hawk, while the more respectable girls of established families are left to hang back in the shadows. From the distanced perspective of a man writing a memoir, Jim can look back on this curious social order and analyze it as the natural evolution of the American immigrant experience. The same girls who were initially held back by barriers of language and wealth applied the strength of character acquired through hardship in order to better their lot in life. As a result, the servant girls of Jim\u2019s youth become the property-owning mistresses of his adulthood. That such radical changes are afoot is clear from the pressing march of time. Jim himself is very conscious of the fleetingness of existence, soliloquizing that \u201cwhen boys and girls are growing up, life can\u2019t stand still, not even in the quietest of country towns; and they have to grow up, whether they will or no.\u201d Although Jim clearly understands the inevitability of growing up, we get the sense that his romantic side is loath to do so. Jim grows to dislike the stillness of Black Hawk, however, shuffling aimlessly as he does in his senior year among the \u201cmalcontent\u201d in their \u201cflimsy shelters.\u201d But at the same time, he longs to recapture the innocence and purity of his childhood affection for the domestic and the mundane, as shown when he hangs a May basket for young Nina Harling, taking a \u201cmelancholy pleasure\u201d in the action. As Book II comes to an end, the feeling that the characters are moving out of childhood and into the world of adulthood is nearly complete. The story\u2019s increasing emphasis on sexuality\u2014including Cutter\u2019s bizarre attempt to sleep with \u00c1ntonia\u2014reflects this transition. Jim\u2019s reluctance to grow up manifests itself most strongly in his inability to reconcile his emotional and sexual urges. When he attempts to kiss \u00c1ntonia in the same way that he has kissed Lena, she curtly but politely rebuffs him; he does not protest, but is pleased by her modesty. Although he is \u201cnot half as fond\u201d of Lena as he is of \u00c1ntonia, it is Lena that he dreams of passionately embracing, and though he wishes it were \u00c1ntonia in her stead, he is never able to dream about her in the same way. \u00c1ntonia, too, harbors nostalgia for a purer, more childlike past. She arranges for Jim to meet her and her friends at the river, in a last attempt to re-create old times. While her tears are ostensibly shed in longing for a lost Bohemia, she perhaps feels another grief\u2014equally strong but subconscious\u2014for the loss of her and Jim\u2019s shared childhood in the Nebraska countryside. Once again, Cather reverts to the majesty of the landscape to provide a visual analogue for the nostalgia and sense of loss that her characters feel. As Jim and the girls continue to reminisce late into the afternoon, a plow emerges against the red disk of the setting sun, heroic in its loneliness, a symbol for the romantic imagination. But, inevitably, like the romantic imagination itself, this heroic image can enjoy only a fleeting moment of distorted importance. As the sun slowly sinks, the plow is returned \u201cback to its own littleness\u201d beneath the darkening sky, symbolizing how helpless humankind is in the face of indomitable forces of the universe such as time.", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126021927/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/antonia/section5/"}