{"name": "Book I, Chapters VII-XIII", "summary": "\u201cI never know you was so brave, Jim,\u201d she went on comfortingly. \u201cYou is just like big mans. . . .\u201d See Important Quotations Explained   Chapter VII One day, \u00c1ntonia and Jim ride Jim\u2019s pony to Peter\u2019s house to borrow a spade for Ambrosch, her older brother. On the way home, they stop to examine a group of prairie-dog holes. Suddenly, \u00c1ntonia spots an enormous snake and lets out a scream, which causes the snake to coil in their direction. She points at the snake and shouts at Jim in her native Bohemian. Jim turns around and sees the huge snake. He swiftly gathers his wits and uses the spade to bludgeon the snake several times to kill it. Jim gets angry at \u00c1ntonia for not warning him in English about the presence of the snake, but her admiration for his bravery quickly wins him over. They resolve to bring the dead snake home to show off Jim\u2019s victory. The size of the snake impresses Jim\u2019s elders, and \u00c1ntonia derives great pleasure from relating the story to all interested listeners.  Chapter VIII Meanwhile, the Russians, Peter and Pavel, have fallen upon hard times. Peter finds himself deeply in debt to a Black Hawk moneylender named Wick Cutter, and Pavel seriously injures himself in a fall. When Peter arrives at the Burdens\u2019 to ask the Shimerdas, who are visiting, for help, Jim decides to accompany \u00c1ntonia and her father to the Russians\u2019 farm. They arrive after nightfall and find Pavel lying incapacitated. Frantic preoccupation with wolves punctuates his illness\u2014a fascination whose origins \u00c1ntonia explains to Jim on the ride home: when Pavel and Peter were living in Russia, they attended a winter wedding party between a mutual friend and a girl from a neighboring town. On the ride home from the wedding, a pack of wolves attacked the wedding party in their sledges. Everyone perished, with the exception of Pavel and Peter, who were driving the sledge that carried the newly married couple; in a frantic effort to lighten that sledge\u2019s load to increase its speed, Pavel had thrown the couple to the wolves. The shame of this incident drove Pavel and Peter from their hometown and later from Russia. The memory of the horror of that evening plagues both Pavel and Peter. Pavel dies mere days after \u00c1ntonia and Jim\u2019s visit, and, with Pavel gone, Peter sells off everything and leaves America. Mr. Shimerda thus quickly loses two of the only friends he had made in the country, and Pavel\u2019s story continues to fascinate \u00c1ntonia and Jim long after Pavel\u2019s death.  Chapter IX At the first snowfall, Otto Fuchs builds a sleigh for Jim to drive. After a test run, Jim sets out to give \u00c1ntonia and Yulka a ride. The girls are unprepared for the cold weather, and Jim gives them some of his clothing to help them keep warm. As a result, he himself is vulnerable to the cold, and ends up bedridden for two weeks with quinsy, a severe tonsil disease.  Chapter X Jim\u2019s next encounter with \u00c1ntonia occurs when Mrs. Burden resolves to bring a gift of a rooster and foodstuffs to the Shimerdas. As they approach the Shimerda farm, Jim spots \u00c1ntonia working at the water pump, but she quickly flees back to the house. When Mrs. Shimerda answers the Burdens\u2019 call, she is in tears. The Shimerdas have very little food stored up for the winter, and much of what they do have is rotting. When Jake brings in the gift basket of food, Mrs. Shimerda only cries harder. Mr. Shimerda explains that they were not beggars in Bohemia, but that several unexpected turns in -America have left them with very little money. While Mrs. Burden reassures the Shimerdas, Jim plays with Yulka\u2019s kitten. As the Burdens rise to leave, Mrs. Shimerda presents a small gift package of food to Mrs. Burden. On the ride home, Jake and Mrs. Burden -discuss the Shimerdas\u2019 plight. Later, while preparing supper, Mrs. Burden discards the gift package of food. Though he is unsure of what the food is, Jim breaks off a small piece and eats it anyway.  Chapter XI During the week before Christmas, with Jake preparing to go into town to do the Burdens\u2019 Christmas shopping, a heavy snow begins to fall. Mr. Burden decides that the roads are unfit for travel, and the family sets about to create homemade Christmas presents. Jim makes a pair of picture books for \u00c1ntonia and Yulka, and Mrs. Burden bakes gingerbread cookies. After delivering an offering to the Shimerdas, Jake brings back a small cedar tree, which the Burdens decorate on Christmas Eve.<PARAGRAPH> Chapter XII On Christmas morning, Mr. Burden leads the family in prayer, and afterward they sit down to a meal of waffles and sausage. Jake mentions that the Shimerdas were very happy to receive gifts from the Burdens. In the afternoon, Mr. Shimerda arrives to thank the Burdens for all of their kindnesses. They persuade him to stay for supper, and he stays until well after dark.  Chapter XIII By New Year\u2019s Day, a thaw has reduced the snow to slush. Soon after, when Mrs. Shimerda and \u00c1ntonia visit the Burdens, \u00c1ntonia and Jim have a fierce argument about the Shimerdas\u2019 situation and attitude. The mild weather continues until late January, when, on Jim\u2019s eleventh birthday, a violent snowstorm blankets the countryside and brings work on the farm to a grinding halt.", "analysis": "Book I, Chapters VII\u2013XIII  My \u00c1ntonia proposes much bolder theories about gender than most other novels of its time. Not only does Cather, a female author, write in the first-person voice of a male narrator, Jim, but Jim himself chooses to spend very little time with the Shimerda boys. Instead, he focuses his attention almost exclusively on \u00c1ntonia and Yulka. Even in the face of a language barrier, a young frontier boy would be more likely to spend more time with his male peers than with his female peers. But Jim\u2019s sensitive nature and \u00c1ntonia\u2019s tomboyish eagerness for adventure make the two natural companions. If the characters of a novel can be thought of as aspects of their creator\u2019s persona, \u00c1ntonia and Jim are certainly complementary components of Cather. While growing up, Cather did not fit within traditional gender boundaries; she cut her hair short and called herself William. Throughout her life, furthermore, she shunned heterosexual -relationships and socially accepted gender norms. Likewise, the relationship between \u00c1ntonia and Jim breaks\u2014or rather, ignores\u2014the conventions of gender relations. Jim reveals an especially strong desire to identify with his fellow human beings across all kinds of boundaries and differences. This urge to connect is tied closely to Jim\u2019s mystical belief that a divine presence is controlling his fate. As he rides in the back of a horse-drawn wagon, staring up at the stars, he speaks on behalf of \u00c1ntonia when he asserts that \u201cthough we had come from such different parts of the world, in both of us there was some dusky superstition that those shining groups have their influence on what is and what is not to be.\u201d Although Jim feels increasingly alienated from the world, he is comforted by the discovery that \u00c1ntonia, despite coming from a culture entirely different from his own, shares his belief about the stars and fate. Although Jim is not as displaced as the Bohemians or the Russians, he too is an immigrant of sorts, and his desire to identify with others leads him to adapt the immigrant experience to his own life. After he hears Pavel\u2019s story of the wolves, for instance, Jim repeatedly imagines himself as a sledge driver in flight, \u201cdashing through a country that looked something like Nebraska and something like Virginia.\u201d When he makes homemade picture books for \u00c1ntonia and Yulka at Christmas, he uses resources that he brought from Virginia, which he refers to as \u201cmy \u2018old country.\u2019\u00a0\u201d This desire for shared experience also manifests itself in Jim\u2019s efforts to bring the legends and stories of the Bible closer to his own experience. As Mr. Burden reads from the Book of Matthew on Christmas morning, the story of Jesus\u2019 birth strikes Jim as seeming like \u201csomething that had happened lately, and near at hand.\u201d<PARAGRAPH>Mr. Shimerda\u2019s visit to the Burdens on Christmas Day puts a slight ripple in the harmony that Jim feels. Jim\u2019s sense of universality cannot override the practical gap in observance existing between different religions. While the Shimerdas are from Bohemia (a western region of the Czech Republic, a country with a substantial Catholic population) and of Catholic heritage, the Burdens are Protes-tant. Mr. Shimerda emphasizes this difference by kneeling in front of the Burdens\u2019 Christmas tree, transforming it from a symbolic decoration into an explicitly religious icon. While the Burdens may not identify, or even agree, with this type of religious observance, Mr. Burden decides to tolerate it quietly. \u201cThe prayers of all good people are good,\u201d he remarks as Mr. Shimerda vanishes into the Christmas night. It is a noble sentiment, but Cather is ambiguous about whether Mr. Burden speaks sincerely. Jim himself reveals an uncharacteristic lack of sympathy in the argument he has with \u00c1ntonia shortly after New Year\u2019s Day, which may be attributed to his immaturity as a ten-year-old boy. While he retells the story in an adult voice, his words and actions in the story are those of his ten-year-old self. His inability to appreciate the complexity of the Shimerdas\u2019 situation in a new country is not a matter of insensitivity to their plight or scorn of foreigners, but rather a lack of adult perspective. While he tells \u00c1ntonia that \u201cpeople who don\u2019t like this country ought to stay at home,\u201d it is clear from the attention and energy he pours into his relationship with \u00c1ntonia that her departure from Nebraska is the last thing he would want. \u00c1ntonia and Jim\u2019s argument, as an unexpected turn in an otherwise pleasant narrative, suggests greater tensions to come. Additionally, Cather employs a change in the weather to foreshadow trouble. An unusually mild beginning to the year gives way to a violent blizzard. At this point, Cather uses an elegant metaphor of snowbound animals to represent the struggling immigrant family. The high drifts leave the guinea hens \u201cresentful of their captivity,\u201d leading them to screech and attempt to poke their way out of the snow walls that have been built up around them. The Shimerdas, in their economic hardship, face a similar challenge in the unfamiliar land that they now inhabit.", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210126021927/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/antonia/section2/"}