{"name": "Overview", "summary": "Esther Summerson describes her childhood and says she is leaving for the home of a new guardian, Mr. Jarndyce, along with Ada Clare and Richard Carstone. On the way to the home, called Bleak House, they stop overnight at the Jellybys\u2019 chaotic home. When they finally reach Bleak House, they meet Mr. Jarndyce and settle in. They meet Mr. Skimpole, a man who acts like a child.\nThe narrator describes a ghost that lurks around Chesney Wold, the home of Lady and Sir Leicester Dedlock.\nEsther meets the overbearing charity worker Mrs. Pardiggle, who introduces her to a poor brickmaker\u2019s wife named Jenny, whose baby is ill. Esther says she is sure that Ada and Richard are falling in love. She meets Mr. Boythorn, as well as Mr. Guppy, who proposes marriage. Esther refuses him.\nAt Chesney Wold, Tulkinghorn shows the Dedlocks some Jarndyce documents, and Lady Dedlock recognizes the handwriting. Tulkinghorn says he\u2019ll find out who did it. He asks Mr. Snagsby, the law-stationer, who says a man named Nemo wrote the documents. Tulkinghorn visits Nemo, who lives above a shop run by a man named Krook, and finds him dead. At the coroner\u2019s investigation, a street urchin named Jo is questioned and says that Nemo was nice to him. Later, Tulkinghorn tells Lady Dedlock what he\u2019s learned.\nRichard struggles to find a suitable career, eventually deciding to pursue medicine. But he is more interested in the Jarndyce and Jarndyce lawsuit, which he believes will make him rich. Neither Esther nor the narrator ever fully explains the lawsuit, because nobody remembers what originally prompted the parties to begin the suit.\nIn London, Esther meets a young girl named Charlotte who is caring for her two young siblings. A lodger who lives in the same building, Mr. Gridley, helps care for the children as well.\nA mysterious lady approaches Jo and asks him to show her where Nemo is buried.\nMr. Jarndyce tells Esther some details about her background. He reveals that the woman who raised Esther was her aunt. The next day, a doctor named Mr. Woodcourt visits before leaving on a trip to China and India. An unidentified person leaves a bouquet of flowers for Esther.\nRichard begins working in the law. Esther, Ada, and others visit Mr. Boythorn, who lives near Chesney Wold. There, Esther meets Lady Dedlock for the first time and feels a strange connection to her. Lady Dedlock has a French maid, Mademoiselle Hortense, who is jealous that Lady Dedlock has a new young prot\u00e9g\u00e9e named Rosa.\nA man named Mr. Jobling, a friend of Mr. Guppy\u2019s, moves into Nemo\u2019s old room above Krook\u2019s shop.\nTwo men, George and Grandfather Smallweed, talk about some money that George owes Smallweed. They reach an agreement, and George leaves.\nTulkinghorn introduces Bucket and Snagsby, and Snagsby introduces Bucket to Jo. Bucket figures out that the woman Jo led to the burial ground was disguised in Mademoiselle Hortense\u2019s clothes. Mademoiselle Hortense soon quits her post at Chesney Wold.\nCaddy Jellyby tells Esther she is engaged to Prince Turveydrop. Charley Neckett becomes Esther\u2019s maid. Mr. Jarndyce warns Ada and Richard to end their romantic relationship since Richard is joining the army. Gridley dies.\nSmallweed visits George and says that Captain Hawdon, a man he thought was dead, is actually alive, and that a lawyer was asking about some handwriting of his. He asks George if he has any handwriting to offer. George visits Tulkinghorn, who explains that George will be rewarded if he gives up some of Hawdon\u2019s handwriting. George refuses.\nGuppy visits Lady Dedlock in London and tells her he thinks there is a connection between her and Esther. He says that Esther\u2019s former guardian was someone named Miss Barbary and that Esther\u2019s real name was Esther Hawdon. He says that Nemo was actually named Hawdon, and that he left some letters, which Guppy will get. When Guppy leaves, Lady Dedlock cries: Esther is her daughter, who her sister claimed had died at birth.\nCharley and Esther visit Jenny and find Jo lying on the floor. He is sick, and Esther takes him back to Bleak House, putting him up in the stable. In the morning, he has disappeared. Charley gets very ill. Then Esther gets extremely ill.\nGuppy and his friend Jobling want to get Hawdon\u2019s letters from Krook. But when they go down to Krook\u2019s shop, they find that he has spontaneously combusted. Later, Grandfather Smallweed arrives to take care of Krook\u2019s property. Guppy eventually tells Lady Dedlock the letters were destroyed.\nSmallweed demands payment from George and the Bagnets, on whose behalf he borrowed the money. Desperate, he tells Tulkinghorn he\u2019ll turn over the Hawdon\u2019s handwriting if he\u2019ll leave the Bagnets alone.\nEsther recovers slowly. Miss Flite visits her, telling her that a mysterious woman visited Jenny\u2019s cottage, asking about Esther and taking away a handkerchief Esther had left. She also tells Esther that Mr. Woodcourt has returned. Esther goes to Mr. Boythorn\u2019s house to recover fully. She looks in a mirror for the first time and sees that her face is terribly scarred from the smallpox. While there, Lady Dedlock confronts her and tells her she\u2019s Esther\u2019s mother. She orders Esther to never speak to her again, since this must remain a secret.\nRichard pursues the Jarndyce lawsuit more earnestly, aided by a lawyer named Vholes. He no longer speaks to Mr. Jarndyce, who doesn\u2019t want anything to do with the suit.\nEsther visits Guppy and instructs him to stop investigating her.\nTulkinghorn visits Chesney Wold and hints that he knows Lady Dedlock\u2019s secret. She confronts him and says she will leave Chesney Wold immediately because she knows her secret will destroy Rosa\u2019s marriage prospects. Tulkinghorn convinces her to stay, since fleeing will make her secret known too fast. When Tulkinghorn is back home, he is visited by Mademoiselle Hortense, who demands he help her find a job. He threatens to arrest her if she keeps harassing him.\nEsther tells Mr. Jarndyce about Lady Dedlock. He reveals that Boythorn was once in love with Miss Barbary, who left him when she decided to raise Esther in secret. Mr. Jarndyce gives Esther a letter that asks her to marry him. Esther accepts.\nEsther tries to convince Richard to abandon the Jarndyce suit. While she is visiting him, he tells her he has left the army and devoted himself entirely to the lawsuit. Esther sees Mr. Woodcourt on the street. She asks Mr. Woodcourt to befriend Richard in London, and he agrees.\nIn London, Woodcourt runs into Jo on the street and gives him some food. He discovers that Jo once stayed with Esther. Jo tells him that a man forced him to leave and that he\u2019s now scared of running into him. Woodcourt helps Jo find a hiding place at George\u2019s Shooting Gallery. Jo soon dies.\nLady Dedlock dismisses Rosa with no explanation in order to protect her. Tulkinghorn is enraged and says he\u2019ll reveal the secret. That night, Tulkinghorn is shot through the heart. The next day, Bucket arrests George for the murder.\nAda reveals to Esther that she and Richard have been secretly married.\nBucket investigates Tulkinghorn\u2019s murder. He receives a few letters that say only \u201cLady Dedlock.\u201d He confronts Sir Leicester and tells him what he knows about Lady Dedlock\u2019s past. Instead of arresting Lady Dedlock, however, he arrests Mademoiselle Hortense, who killed Tulkinghorn and tried to frame Lady Dedlock.\nMeanwhile, Mrs. Rouncewell, the housekeeper at Chesney Wold, finds out that George is her long-lost son. She begs Lady Dedlock to do anything she can to help him. Guppy arrives and tells Lady Dedlock that the letters were actually not destroyed. Lady Dedlock writes a note to Sir Leicester, saying she didn\u2019t murder Tulkinghorn, and then she flees.\nSir Leicester collapses from a stroke. Mrs. Rouncewell gives him Lady Dedlock\u2019s letter, and he orders Bucket to find her, saying he forgives her for everything. Bucket asks Esther to join him, and they set out in search of Lady Dedlock in the middle of the night. While Sir Leicester waits at home, unable to speak clearly, Esther and Bucket search. Eventually Bucket figures out where to find her. They finally find Lady Dedlock at the gate of the burial ground where Hawdon is buried. She is dead.\nRichard is sick and still obsessed with Jarndyce and Jarndyce. Ada is pregnant and hopes the baby will distract Richard from his obsession with the lawsuit. After visiting Richard one night, Woodcourt walks Esther home and confesses he still loves her as he once did. She tells him she is engaged to Mr. Jarndyce.\nSmallweed finds a Jarndyce will among Krook\u2019s property and gives it to Vholes.\nGeorge moves to Chesney Wold, where he helps tend to Sir Leicester.\nEsther begins to plan the wedding. Mr. Jarndyce goes to Yorkshire on business and then sends for her. When she arrives, she finds out that Mr. Jarndyce has bought a house for Woodcourt out of gratitude. He shows her the house, which is decorated in Esther\u2019s style, and tells her that he\u2019s named the house Bleak House. Then he reveals that he knows she loves Woodcourt and that they should be married. He says he will always be her guardian. Woodcourt appears, and he and Esther reunite.\nThe Jarndyce and Jarndyce case is finally dismissed. No one gets any money since the inheritance had been used up to pay the legal fees. Richard dies.\nEsther says she and Woodcourt have two daughters and that Ada had a son. She is very happy.", "analysis": null, "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210223161114/https:/www.sparknotes.com/lit/bleakhouse/summary"}