{"name": "Act III, scene i", "summary": "But I am constant as the Northern Star,Of whose true fixed and resting qualityThere is no fellow in the firmament. See Important Quotations Explained   Act III, scene i Artemidorus and the Soothsayer await Caesar in the street. Caesar enters with Brutus, Cassius, Casca, Decius, Metellus, Trebonius, Cinna, Ligarius, Antony, and other senators. Artemidorus approaches with his letter, saying that its contents are a matter of closest concern for Caesar. Caesar responds, \u201cWhat touches us ourself shall be last served\u201d\u2014that is, his personal concerns are his last priority (III.i.8). Artemidorus tells him to read it instantly, but Caesar dismisses him as crazy. The group enters the Senate, and Cassius worries that the assassination plot has been discovered. Trebonius draws Antony away from the Senate room. Metellus approaches Caesar to request that his brother, Publius Cimber, who has been banished from Rome, be granted permission to return. Caesar answers that since Publius was banished by lawful decree, there is not just cause for absolving his guilt. Brutus and Cassius kneel at Caesar\u2019s feet and repeat Metellus\u2019s plea; Caesar answers that he will not change his mind now, declaring himself as \u201cconstant as the Northern Star\u201d (III.i.60). When Cinna comes forward and kneels to plead further, Caesar adds another comparison, suggesting that they might as well hope to \u201clift up Olympus,\u201d the mountain where the gods were believed to dwell, as to sway Caesar in his convictions (III.i.74). Decius and Ligarius, followed by Casca, come forward to kneel at Caesar\u2019s feet. Casca stabs Caesar first, and the others quickly follow, ending with Brutus. Recognizing that Brutus, too, has joined with the conspirators, Caesar speaks his last words: \u201cEt tu, Brute?\u2014Then fall Caesar\u201d (III.i.76). He then yields and dies. The conspirators proclaim the triumph of liberty, and many exit in a tumult, including Lepidus and Artemidorus. Trebonius enters to announce that Antony has fled. Brutus tells the conspirators that they have acted as friends to Caesar by shortening the time that he would have spent fearing death. He urges them to bend down and bathe their hands in Caesar\u2019s blood, then walk to the marketplace (the Roman Forum) with their bloodied swords to proclaim peace, freedom, and liberty. Cassius agrees, declaring that the scene they now enact will be repeated time and again in the ages to come as a commemorative ritual. Antony\u2019s servant enters with a message: Antony, having learned of Caesar\u2019s death, sends word that he loved Caesar but will now vow to serve Brutus if Brutus promises not to punish him for his past allegiance. Brutus says that he will not harm Antony and sends the servant to bid him come. Brutus remarks to Cassius that Antony will surely be an ally now, but Cassius replies that he still has misgivings. Antony enters and sees Caesar\u2019s corpse. He marvels how a man so great in deed and reputation could end as such a small and pathetic body. He tells the conspirators that if they mean to kill him as well, they should do it at once, for there would be no better place to die than beside Caesar. Brutus tells Antony not to beg for death, saying that although their hands appear bloody, their hearts have been, and continue to be, full of pity; although they must appear to him now as having acted in cruelty, their actual motives stemmed from sympathy and love for the Roman populace. Brutus tells Antony to wait until the conspirators have calmed the multitude; then they will explain fully why they have killed Caesar. Antony says he does not doubt their wisdom and shakes each of their bloody hands, staining the not-yet-bloodied hands of Trebonius, who has returned from leading Antony astray, in the process.<PARAGRAPH>Antony now addresses Caesar\u2019s departed spirit, asking to be pardoned for making peace with the conspirators over his dead body. After Antony praises Caesar\u2019s bravery, Cassius questions his loyalty. Antony assures Cassius that he indeed desires to be numbered among their friends, explaining that he merely forgot himself for a moment upon seeing Caesar\u2019s body. He emphasizes that he will gladly ally himself with all of the former conspirators, as long as they can explain to him why Caesar was dangerous. Brutus assures Antony that he will find their explanation satisfactory. Antony asks if he might bring the body to the Forum and speak a funeral oration. Brutus consents, but Cassius urges him against granting permission. He tells Brutus that Antony will surely move the people against them if he is allowed to speak. Brutus replies that he will preface Antony\u2019s words, explaining to the public the reason for the conspirators\u2019 deed, and then explain that Antony has been allowed to speak only by Brutus\u2019s consent. He believes that the people will admire his magnanimity for allowing Antony, a friend of Caesar\u2019s, to take part in the funeral, and that the episode will benefit the conspiracy\u2019s public image. Cassius remains displeased, but Brutus allows Antony to take Caesar\u2019s body, instructing him to speak well of them since they are doing him a favor by permitting him to give the oration. All depart; Antony remains alone onstage. He asks Caesar to pardon him for being gentle with his murderers. Antony prophesies that civil strife will follow Caesar\u2019s death and lead to much destruction. As long as the foul deed of Caesar\u2019s death remains unavenged, he predicts, Caesar\u2019s spirit will continue to seek revenge, bringing chaos to Rome. Octavius\u2019s servant enters and sees the body on the ground. Antony tells him to return to Octavius, who had been traveling to Rome at Caesar\u2019s behest, and keep his master out of the city; Rome is now dangerous for Octavius, Caesar\u2019s adopted son and appointed successor. But Antony urges the servant to come to the Forum and hear his funeral speech. Once they see how the public responds to the conspirators\u2019 evil deed, they can decide how Octavius should proceed. Read a translation of \t\t\t\t Act III, scene i\u00a0\u2192 Analysis Just preceding his death, Caesar refuses Artemidorus\u2019s pleas to speak with him, saying that he gives last priority to his nearest, most personal concerns. He thus again demonstrates a split between his public and private selves, endangering himself by believing that his public self is so strong that his private self cannot be harmed. This sense of invulnerability manifests itself clearly when Caesar compares himself to the North Star, which never moves from its position at the center of the sky: \u201cconstant as the Northern Star, / Of whose true fixed and resting quality / There is no fellow in the firmament. / [the] one in all [that] doth hold his place\u201d (III.i.60\u201365). He not only considers himself steadfast but also infallible, beyond the questioning of mortal men, as he compares the foolish idea of him being persuaded of something to the impossible act of hefting the weight of Mount Olympus. In positioning himself thus as a divine figure (the Romans deified certain beloved figures, such as popular leaders, and believed that, upon dying, these figures became ensconced in the firmament), Caesar reveals his belief that he is truly a god. His refusal to pardon Metellus\u2019s banished brother serves to show that his belief in the sanctity of his own authority is unwavering up to the moment that he is killed. Cassius suggests that future generations will remember, repeat, and retell the conspirators\u2019 actions in the years to come. The statement constitutes a self-referential moment in the play, since Shakespeare\u2019s play itself is a retelling of a retelling: the historical murder of Caesar had been treated earlier by Plutarch (46\u2013119? a.d.), whose Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans served as Shakespeare\u2019s source. It was Plutarch who asserted that Caesar ceased to defend himself upon recognizing Brutus among the conspirators, and Plutarch who first gave Caesar his famous last words, which Shakespeare preserves in the original Latin, \u201cEt tu, Brute?\u201d (\u201cAnd you, Brutus?\u201d [III.i.76]). With these words, Caesar apprehends the immensity of the plot to kill him\u2014a plot so total that it includes even his friends\u2014and simultaneously levels a heartbroken reproach at his former friend. By Shakespeare\u2019s time, Plutarch\u2019s lines had already achieved fame, and an Elizabethan audience would likely have anticipated them in the murder scene.<PARAGRAPH>It is Shakespeare\u2019s deft hand of creation, however, that brings Antony to the scene. Despairing over Caesar\u2019s death, Antony knows that he poses a danger to the conspirators and that he must pretend to support them if he wants to survive. He assures them that they have his allegiance and shakes their hands, thus smearing himself with Caesar\u2019s blood and marking Trebonius with blood as well. By marking Trebonius, Antony may be silently insisting on Trebonius\u2019s guilt in the murder, even if his part was less direct than that of the other conspirators. Yet he does so in a handshake, an apparent gesture of allegiance. While the blood on Trebonius\u2019s hands marks him as a conspirator, the blood on Antony\u2019s hands, like war paint, marks him as the self-appointed instrument for vengeance against Caesar\u2019s killers. Cassius\u2019s worries about Antony\u2019s rhetorical skill prove justified. The first scene of the play clearly illustrates the fickleness of the multitude, which hastens to cheer Caesar\u2019s triumph over a man whom it once adored. Surely the conspirators run a great risk by letting such a fickle audience listen to the mournful Antony. Yet, blinded by his conception of the assassination as a noble deed done for the people and one that the people must thus necessarily appreciate, Brutus believes that the masses will respond most strongly not to Antony\u2019s words but to the fact that the conspirators have allowed him to speak at all. Because he feels that he himself, by helping to murder a dear friend, has sacrificed the most, Brutus believes that he will be respected for giving priority to public matters over private ones. We will see, however, that Brutus\u2019s misjudgment will lead to his own downfall: he grossly underestimates Antony\u2019s oratorical skill and overestimates the people\u2019s conception of virtue.", "analysis": null, "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210120141529/https://www.sparknotes.com/shakespeare/juliuscaesar/section6/"}