{"name": "Chapters v\u2013vi", "summary": "Chapter v  Now, in the warm lamplit room, with all its ancient implications of conformity and order, she seemed infinitely farther away from him and more unapproachable.\t See Important Quotations Explained  After supper, Mattie clears up while Ethan takes a last turn around the yard. He returns to the kitchen to find Mattie busy at her sewing. Taking up his pipe, he sits down contentedly by the stove. When Ethan calls Mattie in to join him, she sits in Zeena\u2019s rocking chair, and Ethan suddenly imagines the specter of Zeena\u2019s face to have appeared in place of Mattie\u2019s features. Perhaps sensing her companion\u2019s unease and feeling uneasy herself, Mattie returns to her station in the kitchen. In time, Ethan and Mattie\u2019s disquiet begins to melt away, and they begin a carefree conversation about everyday matters\u2014including, once again, the possibility of going sledding on the next moonlit night. However, when Ethan brings up his sighting of\u00a0Ned and Ruth kissing among the spruces, Mattie suddenly becomes\u00a0silent. Once again, Ethan and Mattie find themselves avoiding the subject that is on both of their minds\u2014their relationship. Ethan discusses Mattie\u2019s marriage prospects, and Mattie discusses Zeena\u2019s ill will toward her. Dismissing the subject of Zeena, they fall silent again, until Ethan boldly places his hand on the opposite end of the piece of cloth on which Mattie is working. Mattie, in recognition of this gesture, ceases her activity and waits. The stillness is interrupted by a clatter. Behind Ethan and Mattie, the cat has leapt from Zeena\u2019s rocking chair in pursuit of a stray mouse. This sudden reminder of Zeena oppresses Ethan, and he impulsively picks up his end of Mattie\u2019s sewing work and kisses it gently. As he does so, the fabric slips from his hold, and he looks up to see Mattie putting away her sewing kit for the evening. The clock strikes eleven. Mattie asks about the fire, and after straightening up the room, she lights a candle and blows out the lamp. As she prepares to climb the stairs, Ethan says goodnight to her, and she responds in kind. Ethan, hearing the door to her room pull shut, realizes that he has not even touched Mattie\u2019s hand during the course of the evening.  Chapter vi At breakfast the following morning, Jotham Powell sits between Ethan and Mattie. Overnight, the wet snow has turned to sleet, creating poor road conditions and giving the men cause to load the remaining lumber at once, but delay their last actual haul until the afternoon. When Powell heads out to harness up the horses, Ethan and Mattie are left alone again, and Ethan has an urge to say, \u201cWe shall never be alone again like this.\u201d He stifles it, however, and settles for telling her that he will be home for dinner. In town, after unloading the lumber, Ethan heads to the Eady store in search of some glue to fix Zeena\u2019s broken dish, but he can\u2019t find any there. Ethan then hastily goes to the widow Homan\u2019s store, where, after a lengthy search, he finally finds a single bottle of glue. In a driving rain, Ethan pushes his team of horses furiously toward home. When he arrives, he puts them away without a thought and dashes into the kitchen. Ethan triumphantly announces to Mattie that he has obtained the glue, but his excitement quickly dissipates when Mattie whispers that Zeena has returned\u2014she has headed upstairs to her room without so much as a word to Mattie. Out at the barn, while Ethan feeds the horses, Powell returns to put away the sleigh. Ethan invites him to stay for supper, but Powell declines. His refusal throws Ethan into a fit of unease, and he is filled with foreboding as he goes back inside, where Mattie tells him that dinner is ready.<PARAGRAPH>", "analysis": "Chapters v-vi In the midst of Ethan and Mattie\u2019s unspoken feelings for one another, Zeena seems almost supernaturally present. For example, when Mattie vacates Zeena\u2019s chair uneasily, it continues to rock for a few moments, as though Zeena has reoccupied it. The mischievous cat seems to represent its absent owner, doing everything in its power to remind Mattie and Ethan of their obligations to Zeena. The cat creates general chaos by hopping up into Zeena\u2019s seat at supper and upsetting the pickle dish; later, as if to solidify its role as Zeena\u2019s ambassador, the cat jumps up into her place and watches the would-be couple with suspicious eyes. Ethan himself introduces Zeena into the room when, as Mattie sits in Zeena\u2019s rocking chair, he mentally transposes Zeena\u2019s face onto Mattie\u2019s body. This act reveals Ethan\u2019s subconscious desires and fears\u2014although he wishes for Mattie to assume a marital role with him, he also lives in anguished torment with regard to the consequences, which embody themselves fully in the fearful appearance of Zeena\u2019s ghostly visage. In the close confines of the familiar, lived-in room, Ethan feels trapped and paralyzed by a realm of conventions in which Mattie seems infinitely out of reach. His home carries associations of conformity, convention, and moral order, which stunt his and Mattie\u2019s conversation. This stilted conversation contrasts sharply with the free-flowing, easy conversation Ethan and Mattie enjoyed the evening before, during their nighttime walk. Ethan\u2019s attempt to overcome his shyness is, in a sense, conducted for its own sake, in revolt against the societal strictures that limit him. In the unshakable silence, Ethan\u2019s shy kiss of Mattie\u2019s sewing work is a strictly symbolic gesture, a desperate attempt to act on his emotions\u2014to prove to himself that he is capable of doing so. When Mattie blushes at the mention of Ruth and Ned as lovers, she acknowledges the sexual tension between herself and Ethan, yet she too feels powerless to take any real action. The subject of sledding is raised a second time in Chapter V, and again it is associated with death. \u201cThere\u2019s an ugly corner down by the big elm,\u201d Ethan says. \u201cIf a fellow didn\u2019t keep his eyes open he\u2019d go plumb into it.\u201d This assessment is foreshadowing with a vengeance, since the story ends with Mattie and Ethan sledding into that same tree, and Wharton almost seems to be hammering the reader over the head with the information. Jotham Powell\u2019s presence at breakfast in the morning tempers the tension between Ethan and Mattie. Not only is Jotham another body in the room, but, as Ethan\u2019s hired hand, Jotham symbolizes the workaday world that stands between Ethan and his dream. Significantly, during Ethan\u2019s village journey of the previous afternoon, it is Powell, not Denis Eady, who visits Mattie after delivering Zeena to her train. Eady has been positioned several times as a possible obstacle to a union between Mattie and Ethan, but the true obstacle is not some intrigue on Mattie\u2019s part, but the everyday world. If Mattie is unreachable, the reason is not, as Ethan fantasizes, Denis Eady. Powell\u2019s neutralizing presence, so unwanted during Zeena\u2019s absence, suddenly becomes desirable to Ethan after his wife\u2019s return. For this reason, Ethan extends a dinner invitation to Powell, hoping to diffuse the tension between him and the two women. Powell\u2019s puzzlingly abrupt refusal adds an air of impending disaster to the upcoming meal. The total change in the household\u2019s atmosphere is further registered when Mattie speaks again: her simple statement that she supposes it is time for supper bears an entirely different set of nuances than the same words held only twenty-four hours before.", "url": "https://web.archive.org/web/20210309051833/https://www.sparknotes.com/lit/frome/section6/"}